# P039 - Selective Aversion to Prey/Predator Eye Orientation in Pigeons
## A study investigating innate fear to visual stimuli representing either predator-like or prey-like eye orientations in pigeons using a digital touchscreen task.
Authors: Cyrus Kirkman, Zayaan Khan, Arnav Ranade, & Aaron P. Blaisdell


## P039a - The initial pilot verison of the P039 project.
This version consisted of the pre-training, autoshaping/instrumental, and Choice Task phases. In all phases, stimuli were relatively large and would appear near the center of the touchscreen, and four subjects (n = 4) were run on this initial phase. In particular, the choice task phase of this version did not attempt to direct birds to stimuli on one side vs the other, and reinforcement was provided regardless of choice. Several independent variables were considered, including peck accuracy, variance, and trial time, etc.

## P039b - The secondary pilot version of the P039 program.
The primary goal of this version was to mitigate the side bias that was found present in subjects during the choice task portion of P039a. To do this, Side-Bias Elimination (SBE) trials were implimented, with a 50% chance of a "correct" (reinforced) choice on the left hand side, and a 50% chance of such a choice on the right hand side of the touchscreen. Probe trials would occasionally occur in between 3-7 of these SBE trials. As a result, subjects would be incentivized to explore their options when making choices, so that when probe trials were shown, an unbiased decision could be made with regards to which stimulus the subjects showed lesser aversion to. Four new subjects were run on this version.

## P039c - The third and final pilot version of the P039 program was P039c.
While side bias was (mostly) eliminated by the time of this version's creation, it's primary goal was to alter a couple of elements of the experimental program to try and truly determine if our experimental data was, in fact, null. Stimuli were made much smaller and lowered on the touchscreen to allow for easier subject access, as well as ensuing that the entire stimulus body was visible to the subjects because their eyes are in very close proximity to the screen. A "trial 68" bug was also fixed. Additionally, the pre-training stimulus was changed away from a basic circle to an irregular polygon shape, to avoid carryover effects from one of the lab's other projects that contained a "circle" stimulus. Four new birds were selected to run on P039c, however one subject, Jubilee, was not capable of completing any tasks and was dropped during the pre-training phase. 
